# Artifact

## Table of contents

- [Use-cases](#use-cases)
- [Concepts](#concepts)
- [xxx](#xxx)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [put](#put)
  - [get](#get)
  - [list](#list)
  - [delete](#delete)
  - [exists](#exists)


## Use-cases

1. Arhiving artifacts - storing final deliverables
2. Promoting artifacts though pipeline and workflow
3. Debugging - Store and inspect logs, screenshots and other debug data through UI or CLI

## Concepts

### Big picture

Artifacts can be stored and accessed on four different layers. This concept makes it easy to use artifacts for different purposes with very simple commands.

Artifact stores:

- **Project** - static, one per project
- **Workflow** - dynamic, nasted under current workflow
- **Pipeline** - dynamic, nasted under current pipeline
- **Job** - dynamic, nasted under current job


### Project level

**Use-case** - Storing final deliverables

This is static level. It's an artifact store that is per project and it's possible to simply upload/download files and directories from this level from every job from any workflow and pipeline. Here is an example how you can interect with project level store from any job in your pipeline or from your local development environemnt.
	
From any jobs running on Semaphore:
	
```yaml
artifact project put myapp-v3.tar
artifact project get myapp-v3.tar
```
	
From your development environment:
	
```sh
sem artifact project put --project payment-api myapp-v3.tar
sem artifact project get -p payment-api myapp-v3.tar
```
	
You can also view and download your artifacts from project page in the UI.


### Workflow level

**Use-case** - Promoting build artifacts accross pipelines. e.g. promoting from _Build and test_ pipeline into _Production deployment pipeline_.

This is dynamic level. New store is created for each new workflow. Here are examples for interacting with this store from any pipeline and any job within workflow.
	
From any jobs running on Semaphore:
	
```yaml
artifact workflow put myapp-v3.tar
artifact workflow get myapp-v3.tar
```
	
From your development environment:
	
```sh
sem artifact workflow put --workflow <WORKFLOW_ID> myapp-v3.tar
sem artifact workflow get -w <WORKFLOW_ID> myapp-v3.tar
```
	
You can also view and download artifacts from workflow page in the UI.

### Pipeline level

**Use-case** - Promoting build artifacts accross blocks within same pipeline. e.g. Promoting binary compiled in the first block into unit test and integration tests blocks.

This is dynamic level. New store is created for each new pipeline. Here are examples for interacting with this store from any job within pipeline.
	
From any jobs running on Semaphore:
	
```yaml
artifact pipeline put myapp-v3.tar
artifact pipeline get myapp-v3.tar
```
	
From your development environment:
	
```sh
sem artifact pipeline put --pipeline <PIPELINE_ID> myapp-v3.tar
sem artifact pipeline get -p <PIPELINE_ID> myapp-v3.tar
```

You can also view and download artifacts from pipeline on the workflow page in the UI.

### Job level

**Use-case** - Debugging jobs with easy access to artifacts that job created. e.g. Storing logs, screenshots, core dumps and inspecting them them on the job page.

This is dynamic level. New store is created for each new job. Here are examples for interacting with this store from job.
	
From job running on Semaphore:
	
```yaml
artifact put logs/build.log
artifact get logs/build.log
```
	
From your development environment:
	
```sh
sem artifact put --job <JOB_ID> logs/build.log
sem artifact get -p <JOB_ID> logs/build.log
```

You can also view and download artifacts on the job page in the UI.

---
---
# Don't read below this point - ðŸ‰s & ðŸs.
---
---

### Job level artifacts

When uploading artifacts this is default level. Artifacts stored on this level can be inspected through the UI by opening job page.

Example:

```yaml
version: v1.0
name: Basic YAML configuration file example.

agent:
  machine:
    type: e1-standard-2
    os_image: ubuntu1804
    
blocks:
  - task:
      jobs:
          - commands:
           - echo "Hello World!" > file.txt
      epilogue:
        commands:
           - artifact put file.txt
```    


Upload artifact in job with `artifact` CLI:

`artifact put yourfile.json`
        
To view artifacts uploaded in a job simply visit job page: https://ORG.semaphoreci.com/jobs/JOB_ID

To download artifact from your local development environment use:

`sem artifact get --job JOB_ID yourfile.json`

To download all files generated by this job use

`sem artifact get --all --job JOB_ID`

It is also possible to download artifacts stored on job level from another job within pipeline however it's impractocal. For this use-case of promoting artifacts through pipeline and workflow you should store artifacts on those levels. For the sake of completness command to do that would be:

`artifact get --job JOB_ID yourfile.json`

Implementation notes:
- all files and directories uploaded from the same job are stored in the same base directory which is `/artifacts/jobs/JOB_ID/`
- artifact store is backed by a S3 bucket or compatible store.
- Uploading same file or directory that already exists will fail. Use `--force` or `-f` flag to overwrite it.

### Pipeline level artifacts

Storing artifacts on the pipeline level is best used when you need to work with artifacts produced in one block in other blocks within same pipeline, but you don't need those artifacts in other pipelines that you have within same workflow.

Example:

```yaml
version: v1.0
name: Moving files through pipeline

agent:
  machine:
    type: e1-standard-2
    os_image: ubuntu1804
    
blocks:
  - name: "Build"
    task:
      jobs:
          - name: WorldA
            commands:
              - echo "Hello WorldA!" > fileA.txt
              - artifact pipeline put fileA.txt
          - name: WorldB
            commands:
              - echo "Hello WorldB!" > fileB.txt
              - artifact pipeline put fileB.txt
              
  - name: "Test"
    task:
      jobs:
        - name: "Do some testing"
          commands:
            - artifact pipeline get fileA.txt
            - artifact pipeline get fileB.txt            
            
        - name: "Do something more"
          commands:
            - artifact pipeline get --all
```            

Upload artifact to the pipeline level.

`artifact pipeline put yourfile.json`

You can view pipeline level artifacts by clicking on "View artifacts" link next to pipeline on the workflow page.

To download artifact in other jobs within the same pipeline use:

`artifact pipeline get yourfile.json`

To download artifact from your local development environment use:

`sem artifact pipeline get --pipeline PIPELINE_ID yourfile.json`

To download all files generated in this pipeline use:

`sem artifact pipeline get --all --pipeline PIPELINE_ID`

Implementation notes:
- all files and directories uploaded to the pipeline level are stored in `/artifacts/pipelines/PIPELINE_ID/`.

## CLI

## put

#### `artifact put x.zip`

##### Description

Uploads file or path into `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/x.zip`.

###### Example 1: Uploading nested file.

`artifact put logs/webserver/access.log` puts file into `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/log/webserver/access.log`

###### Example 2: Uploading directory

`artifact put logs/webserver` puts directory with all sub directories and files into `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/log/webserver`

##### Alternative forms and flags

1. `artifact put job x.zip` is alias for `artifact put x.zip`

2. `--destination` or `-d` sets destination directory or file path

`artifact put job x.zip -d y.zip` puts file into `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/y.zip`.

`artifact put job logs/webserver --destination debuglogs` puts all sub-dirs and files into `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/debuglogs`.

3. `--job <job-id>` or `-j <job-id>`

By default command is looking for `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID` env var. If it's not available it fails. If flag `--job` is specified it takes precedence over `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID`.

4. `--expire-in 10d` or `-e 10d`

Expires - deletes the files or directories after amount of time specified. 

Supported options are:
- just integer (number of seconds)
- `Nh` for N hours
- `Nd` for N days
- `Nw` for N weeks
- `Nm` for N months
- `Ny` for N years

If expires flag is not set artifact never expires.

##### Output

TODO

##### Requirements
- SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID (not required if `--job` flag is specified)
- Linux, macOS: `~/.artifact/credentials`
- Windows: `dir "%UserProfile%\.artifact\credentials"`

### Putting artifacts into artifact store on different levels

Other supported levels include `pipeline`, `workflow` and `project` level. These are variations of the command depending on the level:

#### `artifact put pipeline x.zip`

File is stored into `/artifacts/pipelines/<SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID>/x.zip`

#### `artifact put workflow x.zip`

File is stored into `/artifacts/workflows/<SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_ID>/x.zip`

#### `artifact put project x.zip`

File is stored into `/artifacts/projects/<SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_ID>/x.zip`

## get

#### `artifact get x.zip`

##### Description

Artifact stored at `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/x.zip` will be put at current directory as `x.zip`.

##### Alternative forms and flags

1. `artifact get job x.zip` is alias for `artifact get x.zip`

2. `--job <job-id>` or `-j <job-id>`

By default command is looking for `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID` env var. If it's not available it fails. If flag `--job` is specified it takes precedence over `SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID`.

##### Requirements
- SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID (not required if `--job` flag is specified)
- Linux, macOS: `~/.artifact/credentials`
- Windows: `dir "%UserProfile%\.artifact\credentials"`

### Putting artifacts into artifact store on different levels

Other supported levels include `pipeline`, `workflow` and `project` level. These are variations of the command depending on the level:

#### `artifact get pipeline x.zip`

File is stored at `/artifacts/pipelines/<SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID>/x.zip` would be restored at current directory as `x.zip`.

#### `artifact get workflow x.zip`

File is stored into `/artifacts/workflows/<SEMAPHORE_WORKFLOW_ID>/x.zip` would be restored at current directory as `x.zip`.

#### `artifact get projects x.zip`

File is stored into `/artifacts/projects/<SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_ID>/x.zip` would be restored at current directory as `x.zip`.

## get

#### `artifact list`

##### Description

`artifact list` lists root of the job directory `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/`

`artifact list job` lists root of the job directory `/artifacts/jobs/<SEMAPHORE_JOB_ID>/`

`artifact list pipeline` lists root of the job directory `/artifacts/pipelines/<SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID>/`

`artifact list workflow` lists root of the job directory `/artifacts/workflows/<SEMAPHORE_PIPELINE_ID>/`

`artifact list project` lists root of the job directory `/artifacts/projects/<SEMAPHORE_PROJECT_ID>/`
